Hi everybody and welcome back and this delightfully short lecture we're going to be looking at how to
count the number of items put in one of your lists.
So as you can see here I have started off with at least 30 days from our last lecture I want I'm going
to do is just add in some quick comments.
So I'm going to add in today's date
25th of October 2016 and just let me spaced that out so it's nice and clean.
Next myself of the author and then the name of this program
how to find the length of a list.
OK.
Perfect.
So we have a list here which I took from our last letter.
You can do the same.
And I'm just going to add in a comment list of days of the week probably unnecessary as it's very very
obvious what this is but nonetheless just do it because I like putting comments in for clarity.
Now we mentioned earlier that when dealing with list you can be dealing with hundreds of thousands if
not millions of items.
So Soltani of pite and to provide us with a way of quickly and easily finding the length of a list by
using the length function which looks like this perfect as we get more and more friends and other birthday
months to our list.
It would be handy to know how many elements are in it.
So how do we apply the length function to our list.
Well let's have a look.
We start off with a simple print statement print open and close brackets.
And we then open bracket and pass it the name of the list we want to count.
So in this case it's birthday days.
There we go.
Make sure you have two closing brackets here and let's print that and they have a bottom left hand side
five.
So there are five days of the week in our list.
OK.
Let's add in the weekend day Saturday and Sunday.
And I've left out the opening single quote and I'll disclose that.
There we go.
Comma separated out and Sunday.
Perfect.
Run our program again.
There we go.
Seven nice quick easy lecture on how to find a number of elements in any list.
Thank you and I'll see you in the next lecture.